RANDOM EVENT IDEAS

Economic Downturn
Player is warned 3-6 months in advance.  Effective over 1-3 year period.  Income decreases 25-50%, publication influence over society increases slightly (more desperate times).

Economic Upturn
Effective over 1-3 year period.  Income increases 25-50%, publication influence over society decreases slightly.

Hire Specialist (weather presenter, sportscaster, etc.)
Choices: Hire/Don't Hire
If hire: fixed cost over fixed period of time, fixed influence gain over fixed period of time.

Foreign Conflict Reporting
Your goverment is supplying arms to one side in a foreign conflict.
Choices: Report favourably on goverment side of conflict/inversigate govt spending or report POV of other side
Consequence: Instant (small) shift to authoritarian or libertarian for society (not publication)

Hire Security
If society is sufficiently authoritarian/libertarian, this event may trigger.
Hire: costs some fixed amount over a fixed period of time
Don't Hire: There is some low probability (higher with higher libertarian/authoritarian) that the news HQ is raided by outlaws in a subsequent event, causing you to lose half of your money and be downgraded one level of reach (international -> national, etc.) since HQ is destroyed.

Sensationalization
Frequency: appears once per game
If you wish, you can begin to sensationalize news headlines, which in turn unlocks more sensational news events.  Required for MechaHitler, etc.  Warning: can cause the game to spiral out of control.

Tech Victory (ripoff of Civ games)
Extremely rare: 1 in 1000 chance that it even appears in a given game.  Requires Sensationalization.  Requires International Reach.  Requires 20 total Luck, 20 total Truth, 20 total Creativity, 20 Total Speech.
Your publication reaches a level of influence over society such that you are effectively supreme dictator of humanity.  Over a series of events, you may choose to found a private spaceflight company, divert funds to it from the paper, and once it has been funded with $100 billion, launch a flight which 5 years later will land humans on Alpha Centauri, at which point you get a Game Over with only the words 'You Win' displayed on the screen.  Unlocks an acheivement.  Not that anyone will ever see it.
